doc/en/Authoring/Question_blocks.md, before:

# Question blocks

## Introduction ##

Question blocks add flexibility to STACK questions by adding functional structures.

For maximum flexibility, blocks can be nested and conditionally evaluated. A body of CAStext is then repeatedly processed until all
blocks have been interpreted into CAStext. This is a core part of CAStext and so applied to all appropriate parts of the question.

Note:  The parameters to blocks in the question body may **NOT** depend on the student's answers. This means that you cannot reveal
an input block based on student input, well not just by using an [[if/]]-block. But you may still adapt PRT-feedback as much as you
want.

Updated note: The parameters have no problems with state-variables and you can construct code in the PRT-feedback-variables -field
that changes those state-variables so that you may reveal input blocks...


## General Syntax ##

To avoid issues with the rich text editors used in Moodle we use a simple syntax not too different from the syntax used in input and
output components:

    [[ block_type param1="value1" param2='value2' ... paramN="valueN" ]]
    Some content.
    [[/ block_type ]]

The syntax is quite similar to XML and includes [[ emptyblocks /]].

## Conditional blocks ##

The common **if** statement is written as:

    [[ if test="some_CAS_expression_evaluating_to_true_or_false" ]]
    The expression seems to be true.
    [[/ if ]]

For example,

    [[ if test='oddp(rand(5))' ]]
    This is an odd block!
    [[/ if]]

There is no else or else-if functionality as they would make the syntax rather difficult to evaluate.

## Foreach loop ##

Foreach blocks iterate over lists or sets and repeat their content redefining variables for each repetition.

    [[ foreach x="[1,2,3]" ]]{#x#} [[/ foreach ]]

You may have multiple variables and they will be iterated over in sync and the variables may also come from Maxima. Should one of
the lists or set be shorter/smaller the iteration will stop when the first one ends.

    [[ foreach x="[1,2,3]" y="makelist(x^2,x,4)" ]] ({#x#},{#y#}) [[/ foreach ]]

Because the foreach block needs to evaluate the lists/sets before it can do the iteration, using foreach blocks will require one
additional cas evaluation for each level of foreach blocks.

## Define block ##

The define block is a core component of the foreach block, but it may also be used elsewhere. Its function is to change the value of
a cas variable in the middle of castex. For example:

    [[ define x='1' /]] {#x#}, [[ define x='x+1' /]] {#x#}, [[ define x='x+1' /]] {#x#}

should print "1, 2, 3". You may define multiple variables in the same block and the order of define operations is from left to right
so "[[ define a='1' b='a+1' c='a+b' /]] {#a#}, {#b#}, {#c#}" should generate the same output.


## External block ##

The External block is a special block sending its contents to external tools for evaluation, typically, generating images. All
external blocks must define their type and may define additional parameters. For example the following would produce an image of an
equation:

    [[ external type="latex" template="basic" ]]\[\frac12\sin{{@f@}}\][[/ external ]]

While working with source-code for various tools you'll probably want to turn of the rich text editor and use plain text instead and
make sure that you do not load and save the document in the rich text editor as that will reformat it and add various line-breaks
and paragraphs in all the wrong places.

Note: For various technical and security reasons external-blocks have been disabled by default. Should you want to use them you will
need to activate them in the settings on type by type basis and provide all the additional software-requirements and configuration
parameters they may need.

In general the external block is not quite ready for large scale use and exists only for the most adventurous of question authors
and stack-developers. If you have any doubts about your understanding of the risks related to it you should stay away from it.

Commit message:

The 'else-if' of our if-block is 'elif'.

doc/en/Authoring/Question_blocks.md, after:

# Question blocks

## Introduction ##

Question blocks add flexibility to STACK questions by adding functional structures.

For maximum flexibility, blocks can be nested and conditionally evaluated. A body of CAStext is then repeatedly processed until all
blocks have been interpreted into CAStext. This is a core part of CAStext and so applied to all appropriate parts of the question.

Note:  The parameters to blocks in the question body may **NOT** depend on the student's answers. This means that you cannot reveal
an input block based on student input, well not just by using an [[if/]]-block. But you may still adapt PRT-feedback as much as you
want.

Updated note: The parameters have no problems with state-variables and you can construct code in the PRT-feedback-variables -field
that changes those state-variables so that you may reveal input blocks...


## General Syntax ##

To avoid issues with the rich text editors used in Moodle we use a simple syntax not too different from the syntax used in input and
output components:

    [[ block_type param1="value1" param2='value2' ... paramN="valueN" ]]
    Some content.
    [[/ block_type ]]

The syntax is quite similar to XML and includes [[ emptyblocks /]].

## Conditional blocks ##

The common **if** statement is written as:

    [[ if test="some_CAS_expression_evaluating_to_true_or_false" ]]
    The expression seems to be true.
    [[/ if ]]

The **if** block uses a special syntax expansion that provides it a way to handle **else** cases. For example,

    [[ if test='oddp(rand(5))' ]]
    This is an odd block!
    [[ else ]]
    This is an even block!
    [[/ if]]

There is an *else if* type of structure using **elif** (Python coders won the syntax selection vote),

    [[ if test='oddp(var)' ]]
    This is an odd block!
    [[ elif test='is(var=0)' ]]
    It might be even but it is also zero.
    [[ else ]]
    This is an even block!
    [[/ if]]


## Foreach loop ##

Foreach blocks iterate over lists or sets and repeat their content redefining variables for each repetition.

    [[ foreach x="[1,2,3]" ]]{#x#} [[/ foreach ]]

You may have multiple variables and they will be iterated over in sync and the variables may also come from Maxima. Should one of
the lists or set be shorter/smaller the iteration will stop when the first one ends.

    [[ foreach x="[1,2,3]" y="makelist(x^2,x,4)" ]] ({#x#},{#y#}) [[/ foreach ]]

Because the foreach block needs to evaluate the lists/sets before it can do the iteration, using foreach blocks will require one
additional cas evaluation for each level of foreach blocks.

## Define block ##

The define block is a core component of the foreach block, but it may also be used elsewhere. Its function is to change the value of
a cas variable in the middle of castex. For example:

    [[ define x='1' /]] {#x#}, [[ define x='x+1' /]] {#x#}, [[ define x='x+1' /]] {#x#}

should print "1, 2, 3". You may define multiple variables in the same block and the order of define operations is from left to right
so "[[ define a='1' b='a+1' c='a+b' /]] {#a#}, {#b#}, {#c#}" should generate the same output.


## External block ##

The External block is a special block sending its contents to external tools for evaluation, typically, generating images. All
external blocks must define their type and may define additional parameters. For example the following would produce an image of an
equation:

    [[ external type="latex" template="basic" ]]\[\frac12\sin{{@f@}}\][[/ external ]]

While working with source-code for various tools you'll probably want to turn of the rich text editor and use plain text instead and
make sure that you do not load and save the document in the rich text editor as that will reformat it and add various line-breaks
and paragraphs in all the wrong places.

Note: For various technical and security reasons external-blocks have been disabled by default. Should you want to use them you will
need to activate them in the settings on type by type basis and provide all the additional software-requirements and configuration
parameters they may need.

In general the external block is not quite ready for large scale use and exists only for the most adventurous of question authors
and stack-developers. If you have any doubts about your understanding of the risks related to it you should stay away from it.
